---
title: "Why am I even blogging in 2023?"
seoTitle: "Starting a blog in 2023"
categories:
  - lifestyle
  - technology
date: 2023-02-04
image: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1522881451255-f59ad836fdfb?ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1872&q=80"
---

I'm not a great writer. At times I feel it's hard to convey my thoughts through words. I don't have a strong vocabulary so I often reuse words or resort to a thesaurus for synonyms. I'm not really that public of a person either. I've leaned towards less usage of social media in the recent years. _So why even start a blog?_

---

### My noggin'

> "I can't remember"

I realized that I frequently say it. Whether it's what I ate a few days ago, or an activity I did on a past vacation, or some technical detail of a project I previously completed... I'm realizing that I just don't seem to remember a lot. I enjoy remininiscing: looking at old photos, reading yearbook messages, and even re-reading performance reviews.

By remembering where I was, how I felt, and what I knew, I could start to see the trajectory that brought me here to today.

---

### I want to be a better writer.

For a long time, I despised writing. It wasn't an activity that I was good at, and therefore one I neglected. But the recent years have really shown me that a word written is just as powerful, if not more, than a word spoken. In a digital age, being able to eloquently & effectively convey thought through text is a skill so vital, yet lacked by many - _myself included_.

What does that look like? Technical writing? Creative writing? I'm not sure. All I know is that I want to come back to these posts one, or two, or ten years down the line and discover how shitty of a writer I was.

---

### Technical documentation

Weekends are spent hammering the keyboard for projects: learning new languages, trying a new framework, refactoring an old project, etc. While it's been helpful to gain the technical knowledge of _doing_, there's been a much lesser investment in documenting my code, thought process, and obstacles. Somewhat related to both reasons above, one of the intentions for this blog is to document the various technologies I use in my work.

#### What am I using to build this blog?

In short: Gatsby. Gatsby is a static site generator, which means that this blog and its posts are generated from raw data and templates. What are some of the benefits of implementing a blog this way?

- Gatsby is built on React. It was quicker for me to get this up & running. This is what sold me, as opposed to using a tool like jekyll or hugo.
- I'm able to write and render markdown (.md) content. Markdown is an open standard, flexible, and allows content to be quickly written and formatted.
- Automatic route/page creation. I don't need to worry about managing routes for posts, since it's flexible enough to adjust how pages are created. For example, I'm adding custom slugs (with date / title) to make sure that two articles don't overlap.
- CI/CD process through Github Actions. I'm deploying this site on every `master` push, and the CI/CD pipeline uses FTP to push it to my subdomain folder.

It's definitely a simple site that only took about 5-6 hours to get up & running. If you're interested in doing something similar, feel free to take a look at my github.

---

Cheers. Ricky, if you're reading this in a few years, I sure hope you got what you built this for.
